ICICI LB Elevat vs Manipal Cigna
Sarvapara Both plans are quite popular.  A
lot of people keep talking about these plans
in our comments.  We get a lot of DMs
on Instagram on Twitter that we should
compare these plus.  So let's get on to it.
Let's compare these plans.  So Mahavir
[Sangeet] Chopra the Founder and Chief
Executive Officer of Beshk.org.
[Music]
Okay.  Let me
tell you in the video what we will cover quickly.  First,
we will compare all the unique selling points of
both the plans.
Seconds will give you a quick roll call
of all the core benefits.  Both
are comprehensive plans but it is still
important to know how
both these plans perform in terms of all the core benefits.  Third, we will
tell you about the waiting periods.  Fourth, we will tell you
about claim performance and service performance.  We
will tell you about the pricing and lastly we
will tell you mostly the rating of these plans which is our
independent research brand which does the
rating IM which is ILM Research they will tell
you what is the rating of all these
plans in terms of products, in
terms of service, in terms of claims
and in terms of also other parameters
that are important when you are buying this
plan.  We will start with the USP.
Let's understand what these two plans
are most popular for and then we will take it
from them.  Now ICICI Lamb Elevate
is a plan which is known for basically its
infinite covers that it offers multiple
types of infinite options that it offers.
All of the options that it offers
interestingly are largely customizable
options.  Meaning, the way you want to make your plan,
depending upon your
requirements, you can make it is what they have
tried to attempt with this product.
The first feature to understand is that
this plan offers an unlimited sum insured.
Meaning, like the sum insured is ₹75 lakh, ₹10
lakh, ₹15 lakh, ₹50 lakh, ₹1
crore, ₹2 crore, ₹3 crore.  That way they give you
an option to choose unlimited sum insured in
the dropdown of sum insured in terms
of options which basically means that the
question you have is how much sum
insured is enough, right?  And in terms of how we
live our lives and the future, it is becoming very difficult
to understand how much
sum insured will be enough?  Let's say if there is a
very big claim that comes tomorrow.
From that perspective, it is a
good option that came up in the market.  So that's what this
plan offers.  The other
interesting USP that this plan offers
is the World Wide Cover add-on.  So typically
the World Wide Cover add on is what they are offering,
typically a lot of the companies are offering
World Wide Cover order but they don't give
you emergency and plan.  They typically give
you emergency and they give you plant.  This is
a product that gives you both.  You can
basically if you are travelling abroad and you
get unwell and you need hospitalisation that is
also covered.  And if you are in India and you need
hospitalization outside, that is also
covered.  This is an add on.  Most of the
things in ICICI Bank that are included in the Elevate
plan are add-ons.  Ah it is a separate cover
that you can choose up to a sum insured of Rs 3
crore.  There is a waiting period of 2 years.  Meaning,
if you take this, then in the first 2 years you will
not be able to make a claim for anything
outside India.  But after that you will be
able to make a claim.  If you pay a little more money in this, then
two years can also become one year.
Only cashless is available.  This is a very
important condition to understand that you will never be
able to
use reimbursement.  This means that
you cannot go to the hospital of your choice.  You always have to
look at their network and then go to
those hospitals only.  Right?  There is one more condition
, a simple condition.  Let me quickly tell you
that in these emergency cases, which
I said about emergency, that you were travelling
outside and then if you got hospitalized, then there is
a definition of trip which is very
important to understand that always a trip that you will take
abroad should not be more than 45 days.  A
trip should not exceed 45 days.  And
all the trips that you are taking throughout the year should
not be more than 90 days.
Normally,
very few people travel for more than 3 months in a year.  45
Days a Trip is also very good a kind
of a cover.  So it's decent.  Right?  So that's what
basically ICIC Loan offers as unique
options that are not available in Manipal
Cigna Sarvaparam.  Recently Manipal Cigna
Sarvaparam has also brought its very different type of
propositions.  And a lot of people are actually not very
happy with the waiting
periods in the policy.  In fact, whenever I try to talk
to anybody about insurance,
people get put off by waiting periods that
this will not be available for 2 years, this will
not be available for 3 years, this will not be available for 30 days
, so what will I get, right?  That is
what Manipal Singh Sarvaparma solved saying that we will not have any
waiting period.  So there are
no waiting periods in this plan.
No 30 day waiting period.  No specified
treatment waiting period of two years.  No
three-year waiting period for pre-excision
diseases.  Meaning it is giving you complete instant cover.
That is the biggest USP of
Manipal Cigna Server Ultimate Plan.  Now there are some
comparable USBs that we will
quickly take.  One is the Infinite Care add
on and the Infinite add on which is called in
Manipal Cigna.  In this, basically what happens is that as
I told you earlier that we do
not know that if a big claim comes
then will I might some insurance be enough.  Late
20 Years From Now.  Like for example
today a heart transplant costs for ₹25
lakh today.  Imagine after 50 years how much it is going to
cost, we don't know after 30 years how much it is going to cost, that is always a question that we have only
one or two such claims
in life time, that is why we are worried and that is the solution that
infinite care and infinite is
time to solve in ICI LM, basically it
offers you an unlimited sum insured for one
claim in your life time, if a family
floater also one claim in your life time
you will be able to make at any sum means at
any hospital bill, that is even if your cover is ₹20
lakh but if your claim comes to ₹2 crore
then the insurance company will pay you that
if you have taken this add on.  So in case of
ah Manipal Cigna's ah Anant add on which is also
an unlimited sub insurance add on they have solved
a problem very differently and
I think very thoughtfully actually that
if you get hospitalized due to any four specific diseases
or get hospitalized due to four events in which
basically the hospitalization which costs more money is
cancer, heart, stroke
and accidents, in these four cases
if you are getting hospitalized then
unlimited times when you are buying this
plan you will be having unlimited sum and in
short means in these events or
diseases you will not have any limitation on sum insured if
you take this add on called Anant
add on.  So it's a very different way of
solving this problem and genuinely
it's a very thoughtful way of solving this
problem.  So that's about Manipal Signs
Sarvaparam.  Now we move to the bonus part.   The
bonus is ICICI LBA Elevate which is
regularly if you do not take the add on then
your sum insured increases by 20% for
basically one year end it takes it up to 100%
means it accumulates up to 100% but if
you take the add on it
increases 100% every year and then there is no
cap which means the more years you renew the
policy, the more your sum insured will increase if you
do it for 20 years and if you keep renewing in 20 years also then
your sum
insured will keep increasing the most interesting
part is that it is not linked to claim so it is
a loyalty bonus so sum insured will keep
increasing means my suggestion would be that if you are
buying this plan you should choose
for this you should definitely try to
explore this add on we also include
premium year just to for  Your information is that
this is available for ₹2000, if someone
is basically 30 years old then he is
getting this add on for ₹2000, brilliant add on in
my view similarly Manipal Cigna also
has a bonus add on again it is not linked to claim it allows
you a renewal bonus which is
basically 100% every year up to 15
times up to 1500x
you can accumulate not 1500x but up to 1500%
you can accumulate up to 15x which is
also good a kind of a feature.  Now,
Durable Medical Equipment Cover is being
offered as an add-on by both ICICI and Manipal
Signal. This is basically an add-on that a
typical health insurance policy does
not cover, such as durable medical equipment which are external equipment.  If you take this add-on then
basically you get cover for this also.   This
means that you do not have to pay for this from your pocket.
Nine listed
durable tools are covered in ICICI and 10
listed durable tools are covered under
Manipal Cigna.  There is a difference between
the two.  We tried a BiPAP machine which is
basically providing Manipal Signa and it is
not providing ICI Lum.  And the
important thing is obviously that if you
ever need to buy medical equipment like a
wheelchair or an oxygen concentrator or whatever
is mentioned here like a wheelchair,
I already said a ventilator, then
obviously it will be based on the
prescription of a doctor.  You can't just
take it on your own.  Now moving on to the
quick roll call of the core benefits of the
plan which basically covers most of the cost of hospital bills.
So,
in both the policies, the room rent limit of IPD is covered only for single private AC room
as a default.  Basically, you
can opt for the cheapest private room.  An upgrade is available for both.
If you pay additional premium, it will be
converted into any room.  Pre and
post hospitalization 90 days 180 days in
both the cases both are giving the same.  So
excellent.  Day Care Hospitalization All
Treatments Covered Upto Sum In Sure.
Meaning there is no limit.  All your day
care treatments are covered up to the sum insured.
Modern treatment covered up to
sum insured Organ donor also covered up to
sum insured These are comprehensive policies.
So this is actually necessary.
Otherwise they will not be called
comprehensive policies.  Now moving on to
the exclusions.  The temporary waiting
periods in the policy.  Now there are standard
waiting periods.  30
days for illness related chains in ICI Lum when you
first time by the policy.  And then only
first 30 days only accident chase are
covered.  In case of a specified treatment,
waiting periods which are two years.  Which is
basically a list of illnesses
that are typically not covered by any
insurance company in the first two years
and the third is the existing disease waiting
period.  This is a pre-existing disease
waiting period which is basically three
years.  Right?  So this is the typical standard
that all health insurance companies follow.  There are
some modifications in this which I will
tell you quickly.  In case of PED there are two
kinds of mod modifications that are
possible.  So the waiting period was three years.   You
can do it for 12 months or 24 months.
Meaning you can do it in one or two years by
paying premium.  Now another waiting
period modification is also available.  In case of
excising disease In case of six disease
specific six disease.  You can
convert the waiting period of 30 days to
three years.  What are these
analyses?  Asthma, diabetes, hypertension,
high cholesterol, obesity and
angioplasty which has happened after a gap
of one year.  Meaning,
if you are taking cover after one year, you can get it.
You have to apply and after that
you will have to pay additional premium.
If it is approved then you will get
cover from day 30.  Which is brilliant.
So if you have any of these diseases, it
definitely makes sense to explore this
specific add-on.  And in the same thing in case
of specified diseases also there is a
customization option available, as I told you
that there are some specific diseases in
which the waiting period of two years can be reduced to
one year by paying the premium.  So
all these options are available.  You
must understand all the options whenever you are taking a policy.  You'll get a
default one and then a lot of add-ons.
Nowadays, 40-50 types of
customizations are done in one policy.
That is why we say that whenever you are
buying a policy, keep an expert with you
who knows how insurance operates.
How does Claims operate?
What is the value of what?  There are many features
which are not even useful.
So, I will also
tell you which ones to choose.  So that is why it
is important to take a policy from an expert.  If there is an expert in your area
who is known for claims, then
you should go and talk to him and
buy a policy from him.  We will also help you with claims.
If you are not able to find it then you can definitely come.
You can check its details in the description.  Ok?  So one thing I
missed in this waiting period that I should have
mentioned and good is that the research team is
here.  So they have basically alerted
me on this is that there are basically three
specific illnesses or treatment
conditions which have a waiting period of 90 days.
Like I said that the waiting period of two years is
mandatory, where which is
applicable, let's say even if you don't have
two diseases, you have to basically wait for two
years, similarly in case of hypertension, diabetes and
cardiac conditions,
you cannot claim in the first 90 days.  Like
I told you about 30 days, you can only claim accident.  You
cannot claim sickness.  You
can claim from 31 days.
You will be able to claim sickness for 90 days from day 31.
But in the remaining 60 days,
these three conditions – hypertension, diabetes and
cardiac – will not be covered.
This will not be payable to you.  You can not cover
this and you first buy the policy.  Ok?  And
during the waiting periods, Manipal Cigna made
my work very easy.  There are
no waiting periods in the policy.  So I have nothing to say.  I
mean, this was its highlight
which I had already told you that there are
no waiting periods.  All the
waiting periods mentioned in the list of
ICICI loans are not there in Manipana.  So
if you want to take a plan where
you do not need any waiting period.  If you have any
type of disease, you can apply to Manipal Signa.
If you get it then
you will not have to face any type of waiting period.
Moving on to customer service.
We rate customer service.   The
insurance industry otherwise does not give any kind
of true ratings and kind of
disclosures are done.  So basically,
through ILM Research, we are able to do audits
on insurance companies to find out how
well they are doing on specific
support systems that they are supposed to give.
Right?  So there are two, toll free number and
Twitter which we test.  In
case of toll free ICICI has been marked as
average.  Manipal Signz has mark s quick.
Meaning if you are expecting toll free service.
Our audit
says that Manipal Cigna will be better in
giving you service in case of toll free
compared to ICICI Upay.  Now moving on to
Twitter.  Both are slow on Twitter.
Meaning both are marked as very very poor.   Both are
not doing a great job on Twitter.
So, you cannot expect
good service on Twitter.  You might be thinking
that I don't use Twitter.
What use is it to me?  But this is basically a
kind of an indication.  It gives you a good
idea about how a company is setting up
systems for a specific forum.  So you
get a basic idea of ​​what it is for.   Even
if this is not the case, you are getting to know the attitude
of an insurance company in terms
of how they are looking at service.
Moving on to the most important part of the
video.  Claims experience means no matter how many
promises the insurance company makes like I will give this
, I will give that, I will remove this waiting period
, someone said I will give unlimited sum
insured.  But how do they perform
on claims?  It is a very different thing.  It
actually tells you how the company will deliver on
the promises it makes.  Now four
important parameters that we look at here.
First is the speed of claim settlement.
How fast an insurance company
settles a claim.  99.94%
claims are settled in the first 30 days by
ICICI compare that to 98.69% in the case of
ManipalCigna.  Both are very close.
ICICI is hitting it out of the park.  But
Manipal Cigna is also doing very good.
Meaning 98.69% is also a decent number.  Claim
Complaints Kitne Aate Hai
Claims Pe That is what is basically
tract in this in case of ICICI number it is
14% basically in case of Manipal Cigna it is
25% so means almost double number of claims
complaints are coming for claims in case
of Manipal Cigna in comparison to ICIC
which is a small rail flag.  Next is the
incurred claims ratio.  Inc. Claim Ratio is
that if an insurance company collects ₹100,
how much money out of that the
insurance company basically pays in the claim.
This shows whether an
insurance company is basically profitable
or not and it also shows whether the
insurance company pays enough claims or
not.  So our benchmark is
typically 60 to 80.  If an
insurance company is between 60 to 80 then it is
a good insurance company.
Being below 60 means an insurance company is
not paying a lot of claims.  Being above 80
means that an insurance company is making a lot of
losses and because of that the
premiums will increase in the future.  So being between 60 and 80 is the
most.  So let's see
what is the ratio of each.  So ICICI Lumb is coming at
85.53% means they are crossing the benchmark
that we have put.  So it's not a good sign.
Basically, this means that the chances of their premium
increasing further are very high.  Compare
that to Manipal Cigna which is at 75.45% which
is in the benchmark.  So that's a good green
flag for Manipal Signa.  Moving on to
claim rejection ratio.
I personally consider this ratio very important.
This shows how many of the
claims received by the insurance company are
rejected.  Meaning
how many claims a company rejects.  Both these
companies, Manipal Signai, are 11 years
old.  ICICI is 20-25 years old, if I am
not on both these companies are matured enough that they should not have very
high claim
rejection ratios.  Let's see what is
rejection ratio.  So the claim rejection
ratio for ICICI Alamard is 14.11%.  This
is quite high.  According to me,
if an
insurance company is rejecting 14 out of 100 claims, then it is not a good sign.
And that's why this is a good red flag
for the company.  Manipal Cigna is lesser but
it is still not really great.  It is at
6.24% but still better than ICICI Alam.  Ok
?  So that is the claim matrix that we
want to share with you.  Now the next
matrix that we will look at which is also very
how much is the insurance company incurring after providing all this?
How much is the price?  Because a
product has to be affordable for you to be
able to get all the services that we just
spoke about.  So typically we take Mr.
Kumar who is 30 years old.  Is a covering his
wife.  Who is also 30 years old.  And a kid who is one
year old.  And living in Mumbai
for 10 lakh sum insure what premium
aata hai is what we basically try to
understand?  That Gives Us A Good
Understanding Of What Kind Of
Affordability The Product Has.  Ok?  So
interestingly this is a very important part
because we discussed so many things, so
whatever you see in this will surprise you a bit.
The premium for ICI but
elebet is 13964 in case of ManipalCigna
server permit is 30,346
means upto 2 and half times if I am not
wrong the premium is of ManipalCigna.
Please understand ICICI LBR is a very lean
plan where you have to add add ons to make it
a plan that you need.  So, the
product that he is giving you at the base level
is premium.  There is a
very important thing in Manipal Cigna due to which the
premium is high and this cost will explain to
you what is the cost of waiting period
?  Is the reason why it is 30,346?  What
if there are no waiting periods
in the plan?  So how big is the premium?
30,346 If you are looking for an
instant cover, it will have a cost attached to
it.  Which is 13346 compared to 13964 which is
very-very obviously honestly.  Now coming
to the most important part of this video
which is where we understand how these
products are rated, how these insurance
companies and products are rated by IM
Ratings.  ILM Ratings is India's
most independent insurance research
platform.  It does not have any affiliation,
any kind of commission, marketing, affiliate
marketing, tie ups with any insurance
companies.  It is completely completely unbearable.
So it helps as well get good insights into how an
insurance company is
performing and there is no incentive to label an
insurance company as better or less or good or bad
because commission is
not attached, commission is not attached, ad is also
not attached so let's look at what is the
rating of these plans now
in product benefits ICICI LDA has got 4.69
Manipal Cigna has got 4.94 means Manipal
Cigna has a very good rating out of five.
So 4.94 out of five is a very, very
good rating.  So Manipal Cigna is basically
leading between the two companies when it comes
to product
benefits.  Standard because of its very
very reasonable because of the waiting periods
being removed in the plan.  Customer service:
4.14 in case of ICICI Elovate and 3.85
in case of Manipal Cigna.  So
in customer service ICICI Almard is taking the lead
Manipal Cigna is behind in case of
customer service.  Moving on to claims
experience, it varies depending on how much
rating is being given in claims experience.
If you line up all the insurance companies and
give five points to the best, then where does Manipal Cigna stand?  This shows
where ICICI stands.
So 4.27 for ICICI Lamb
Elevate and 4.63 for Manipal Cigna.  So in
case of claims experience Manipal Cigna
Sarvaparam is coming forward.  Actually not
Manipal Cigna Sarvaparam.  It's Malpal Signa Because
It Claims Experience Not
Product Lit.  ManipalCigna is basically
leading in terms of claim experience.
Interestingly, there is
not much difference in the overall rating.  4.32 in case
of Icic Lambat and 4.28 in case of Manipal
Cigna Sarvaparam.  There
is not much difference between the two products.  What does this mean,
what is this basically reflecting?  Right?
This basically tells you that some product will be
good in something and bad in something else.  They will give
better service but they may not give a good
product.  They may have certain benefits which
you may want and some benefits that you may not want.  That's why we always
recommend that
you get a personalized recommendation on
your basic needs.  Right?  So whenever you are
buying insurance, do
not ask here and there which is the best plan.  Meaning
I would not genuinely recommend it.
This thumbnail of ours will also probably say best
plan.  But I would never recommend you to
ask which is the best plan.  Try this to find out
which is the best plan for you?  How
will you find out?  You have to find an expert and work
very hard.  The more effort you put into
finding the product.  Put in
as much effort into finding the right insurance company as you do into finding the product.
Finding the right service partner who is an expert.
Who can basically be with you not only to
choose the right plan but also buy it right
and then help you at the time of claims.
Who are these?  Typically, there is someone in your area,
location and network circle
who is famous for claims.  Meaning, at least I know a lot of
people who are
known for claim service.  I am
not talking about the man who sells the most policies.  I am
talking about the person who settles the maximum number of claims.
You should buy a policy from them because their
business is claim settlement and not just
pasting policies.  If you are not able to find someone
in your network like that.  You
can always come to, of course.  We have done the hard
work to find the best insurance
experts in the market.  We Do Rigor
Screening.  We personally interview them and
bring them to our platform.
These people are serious about insurance
claims and they will help you buy the right
policy, choose the right plan, help you with the
proposal form, help you with the claim, everything.
If you want to use our service
If you want our free service
is a free consultation.  They don't charge any money
nor do they spam you.  You can see
our pinned comment or description below.
You can click on it.  In that you will
get a link to a WhatsApp chat.  You have to
click on it.  You can
go to WhatsApp and chat with our team.  They will
book a consultation for you for free
and then you can talk to the expert.
If you don't like the export, you
can also change the export.  This is also
a service we provide to you.  So that is all about
basically ICICI Elevate vs Manipal
Cigna Sarvaparam.  If all your questions have been
answered and you found this video helpful, then
definitely do let us know in the
comments.  Also subscribe to us like the
video.  It will help us encourage us to do more
such videos.  And there is something that
we could not answer.  Do you have a
question that we couldn't cover
in this video?  Because of video limit
also they we also have to keep the video in
limits in terms of duration.  Then you can ask those questions in the
comments and we would be more than
happy to answer them as soon as possible.
Thank you very much.